PETE LEPAGE: Chrome 61 now
supports JavaScript modules
natively, unifying the way
that modular JavaScript can
be written.
You can now use navigator.share
to trigger the native Android
shared dialog.
And the WebUSB API has landed,
allowing web apps to access
user-permitted USB devices.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 61.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Chrome 61 adds native support
for JavaScript modules via
the script type=module element.
That makes it
possible for Chrome
to fetch granular
dependencies in parallel,
taking advantage of caching,
avoiding duplication
across pages, and ensuring
that the script executes
in the correct order.
This standardized module
system unifies the way
that modular JavaScript
can be written and shipped
to the web browser.
In the future, the same system
will be available in Node,
making it easier for
you to write and deploy
isomorphic JavaScript.
You can learn more about modules
and the aspects of JavaScript
that are affected by modules
from the links below.
If you want users to easily
be able to share your content
on their favorite
network, you need
to be able to integrate sharing
buttons on your site for each
of those social networks.
It adds bloat to your
page, doesn't always
fit nicely within
your UI, and means
that you need to include
code from a third-party site.
The Web Share API, available
today on Chrome for Android,
allows you to invoke the
native sharing capabilities
of the user's device,
allowing the user
to easily share text
or links with any
of their installed native apps.
In a future release,
this API will also
be able to share to
installed web apps.
To use it, simply
called navigator.share
with the details of the
page that you want to share,
and the system will
handle the rest.
Check out Paul's update link
below for full details and some
of the best practices that
you should be following.
Most hardware peripherals, such
as keyboards, mice, printers,
gamepads are all supported by
high-level web platform APIs.
But using some specialized,
educational, scientific, or
other USB devices in the browser
has been hard, often requiring
specialized drivers.
Chrome now supports
the WebUSB API,
allowing web apps to
communicate with USB devices
after the user has
provided their consent.
To learn more about the security
and privacy considerations
and how they are addressed,
have a peek at the WebUSB spec.
When you're ready to
dive in, take a look
at Francois' post on updates.
Both are linked in
the description.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 61
for developers.
And of course,
there's plenty more.
You can now specify
scrolling smoothness
with the scroll-behavior
CSS property.
CSS hex color values can now
specify an alpha transparency
by adding digits to
the end of the string.
You can access the relative
position of the screen content
with the Visual Viewport API,
exposing complex functionality
like Pinch and zoom
In a more direct way.
All the details, including
links to more detailed changes
docs, specs, are in
the description below.
And be sure to check out
the New in Chrome Dev Tools
video for all the new
stuff in dev tools.
Then, click
Subscribe, and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
62 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.